Ref: Simplearn. 
INTRODUCTION.

NOSQL is a non-relational database that uses key-value pairs to store and retrieve data, unlike a relational database, which stores data in rows and columns. 

A Non-Relational Database is a collection of unstructured and semi-detached items that do not store data in tabular form. 

Various types of NoSQL databases? 
1. Key Value: USAGE: Briskly changing data and high availability. Examples are Riak, Redis. 
2. Column Based: USAGE: Read/Write extensions. Examples: HBase, Cassandra etc. 
3. Document Database. USAGE: Working with occasionally changing consistent data. Example: Couchbase, MongoDB.
4. Graph Databae: USAGE: Spatial data storage. Example: Neo4j, Big data. 

WHAT IS MONGODB? 
MongoDB is a NoSQL database that stores large volumes of data in the form of documents. It removes the concept of rows of conventional and relational data models by introducing documents. 
It stores data in the form of a document in JSON likewise others like MsQL that stores data in tables. 
It stores data in COLLECTION instead of TABLES. 


Why MondoDB? 
Preferred due to its high volume of data. 
1. Open source database
2. Easy to use: Robust, highly scalable and powerful way of storing data in comparison to traditional database models. 
3. Highly Flexible: Allows to store and work on different data types in one document. 
4. Powerful Query language
5. Reliable indexing
6. Flexible schema: designed that allows to meet the ever-changing condition characteristics of Big Data applications
7. High performance: it offers incredible features like on-demand scaling, real-time resources etc to guarantee high performance of the application. 

Ref: Roadmap.sh
When to use MongoDB
1. For big data
2. Real Time Analytics: offering aggregation framework and indexing capabilities to help analyze and process data in real-time. 
3. Content Management: being able to handle content types, making it a suitable choice for content management systems. 
4. Internet of Things application: MongoDB captures and store data from a large number of devices and sensors, proving beneficial in IOT scenarios. 
5. Mobile application: it provides a flexible data model - an essential requirement for the dynamic nature and varying data types of mobile applications. 

MongoDB Basics
1. MongoDb is a NoSQl database system that stores data in flexible json like documents, making it suitable for working with large scale and unstructured data. 
* Database: stores all collections within a MongoDB instance 
* Collection: A group of related documents, similar to a table in a relational database. 
* Document: a single recored within a collection which is stored as BSON ( Binary Json) format. 
* Field: a key-value pair within a document
* _id: a unique identifier automatically generated for each document within a collection. 
